{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
\readonlydoc1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;
\f3\fnil\fcharset77 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13060\viewh12820\viewkind1\viewscale100
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 INTRODUCTION
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs26 \cf0 The MDSplus system was first designed to provide data acquisition services for the C-Mod experiment at MIT, the RFX experiment in Padova, Italy and the ZTH experiment at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. Development of MDSplus began in 1987 by the initial development team of:\
\
Tom Fredian - MIT\
Josh Stillerman - MIT\
Giulio Flor - Padova\
Gabriele Manduchi - Padova\
Ken Klare - LANL\
\
The system was first developed for the OpenVMS platform. In the mid 1990's a client access package was developed which allowed users on unix and windows systems to access MDSplus data via a server on OpenVMS. In the 1998 an porting effort was begun to port the entirety of MDSplus to the unix and windows platforms.  The porting team consisted of:\
\
Tom Fredian - MIT\
Josh Stillerman - MIT\
Tom Gibney - PPPL\
Jeff Schachter - GA\
Bill Meyers - LLNL\
\
Also beginning in 1997 several java class libraries and applications have been developed to access the MDSplus system. Most of this work has been done by Gabriele Manduchi and his colleagues in Padua.\
\
The Mac OS X port and installer were contributed by Darren Garnier with Columbia University.\
\
As more and more sites install and utilize the MDSplus system it is hoped that the number of contributors to this package will grow.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs28 \ul \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul BUILD DETAILS
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
The system currently builds on MacOS X 10.3 (Panther).  It will only run on 10.3 (and above).  If you need a build for 10.2, I can give you pointers for how to go backwards.  \
\
It was built without Globus or D3D support.\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul OPTIONS
\fs24 \ul \

\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 MDSplus FIles
\f1\b0 \
\
There are 3 packages in the installation. The first, MDSplus Files, will install the binaries, libraries, and other parts of the installation of MDSplus.  The will be installed at /usr/local/mdsplus.  WARNING:  If you have made your tree /usr/local a symbolic link to elsewhere, this installer will overwrite the link.  (Not a fatal bug, but is a problem with Apple's installer.)\
\

\f0\b MDSplus Logicals
\f1\b0 \
\
This sets up the MDSplus environment variables for all users at login time.  Unfortunately, due to a bug in Apple's X11, the global environment is not imported for X11 applications.  So, you probably don't want to install this package.  But, if you are running a MDSplus server (see below), it is handy.\
\
If you choose not to install this package, the variables can be defined for MDSplus users by adding the following line to their ~/.bashrc file.  [Starting with Panther, bash is the default Mac OS X shell]:\
\
Instead, you can add the following line to your ~/.bashrc\
\
[ -r /usr/local/mdsplus/setup.sh ] && . /usr/local/mdsplus/setup.sh\
\
If you upgraded your computer from 10.2 or below, you may still have tcsh as your login shell.  In this case add to your ~/.tcshrc file:\
\
source /usr/local/mdsplus/setup.csh\
\

\f0\b \
\
\
\
MDSplus Data Server\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 This sets your system to act as an MDSplus data server.  This currently means three things...\
\
1.  An xinetd entry will be added to /etc/xinetd.d as an unlisted service.\
2.  An access control file will be added at /etc/mdsip.hosts\
3.  The xinetd service will then be started (or restarted).  \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Auxilliary Libraries
\f1\b0 \
\
MDSplus relies on two external packages for some of its functionality.  Namely, Motif and Sybase database libraries.  Due to the vagaries of MDSplus and the MacOS X operating system, it was found that using the dynamic libraries of these packages give the most reliable results.  So, this package will install the needed libraries (and versions) in the places they are expected.   Building MDSplus from the source does allow other choices to be made.\
\
For this build, we've decided to use OpenMotif version 2.1.  (Not to be confused with OpenMotif 2.2).  A nice MacOS X install package is available from obtainable from www.ist-inc.com.  This will install the needed libraries with logical links in /usr/OpenMotif.\
\
For Sybase/MS SQL database access, we are currently building with the FreeTDS libraries, but bombing on connection.   So, this build uses the Sybase OpenClient libraries, version 12.5.  They are part of Sybase ASE 12.5.  I don't know if they are available separately.  You will need to add the location of these libraries to DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH and set SYBASE to the location of "interfaces" file.  If you have access to a linux machine with SQL enabled, you can use it to host your SQL queries and you don't need these libraries... (recommended for now.)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \ul \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
USAGE HINTS
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
With MacOS X 10.3 (Panther), X11 is now included in the operating system.  It is available as an optional install on the Panther installation CD's.\
\
If you would like MDSplus to be available from the X11 terminal, make sure you have logicals set correctly.  \
\
If you would like to call up MDSplus X applications from the menu bar, select Application->Customize... from the menu and enter a name for your command, say "MDS Scope Remote" and a command.  \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f3 \cf0 MDS_HOST=cmoda.psfc.mit.edu ; export MDS_HOST ; dwscope_remote \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
This sets up a scope that gets data from the cmoda data server.  \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qj
\cf0 \
}